in this video will create a series of event procedures to convert the form that we created
in the last video into an interactive form which responds to the use.
That's choices and when the user clicks,
okay,
creates a document based on their specifications.
So here's the form that we created in the last video.
Let's now think about the various types of interactivity that would like to add to this
form.
The best place to start is to think about the form itself when the former peers is there
anything that needs to be in place before the user has even interacted with the form.
In this case,
we want to ensure that we've got the drop downs populated with all the funds on the user
system.
We don't want the user toe have to interact with the form before this happens.
So for this type of event,
we could go into view code and let's choose the user form.
Let's just delete the code that's been put in there and look at the alternative.
We can simply double click on any part of the form apart from one of the controls.
So in any of the space between the controls and we get to the same place on the object
dropped down.
We have used a form selected and on the procedure dropped down.
We have Click,
which is the default event for the use of force.
On this occasion.
Click isn't what we really want.
So from the procedure drop down which is initialized.
So rather than having to wait for the user to click the form which clearly is not a good
idea,
we used the initialize event,
which happens before the form is actually displayed.
And what we wanted to is to populate the font combo boxes.
So that's create a variable said we can create a full loop.
So we're looking inside application.
Not fond names on the count Property will tell us how many funds there are.
Two loop through inside the loop.
We need to add each formed to our combo boxes.
Certainly not CBO.
Let's do title first senses at the top.
Don't add item and the ice and we add in will be application.
What font names brackets?
I So by using I as the index because I changes each time we loop,
we effectively are added.
Each item So I is normally inside a loop.
I is normally each.
Then we could just copy and paste control C control V Control.
Be and change the combo box,
which,
of course,
is CBO author,
and that should be that.
So we contest.
Let's just save and we contest either from the code or from the form itself.
So we've still got impact in times New Roman in place.
But you'll notice that we also have all of the fonts installed on this system.
Now let's think about the interaction between the spin buttons and the related textbooks.
This is gonna be when the spin button changes from one value to another,
and this is actually the default event.
So if I simply double click on the spin button,
then the default event handled it is created for me,
as you can see is the change event on.
All we need to do here is to read from the spin button into the text box,
the value divided by 10.
So just remind you why.
Let's just have a look at the men and Max.
So you got a max of 3 60 in a minute to 40 whereas we actually want font sizes in the range
24 to 36 and we increase in in units of five.
So we've done that because we can't have in tinges as the change.
So we've made everything 10 times bigger than it should be.
So when we divide by 10 will then potentially have increments of five.
So just going back to the code,
we simply say me dot txt title size don't value equals may dot spn title size don't value
divided by 10?
Well,
we may as well do the author before we test it.
So just copy paste paste that becomes also.
And this becomes also so you can see that having a name in system so you can see that
having the name and system for your controls makes it easy to actually ah,
code as well.
So this becomes author as well and less test.
So we go from 30 and you can see it's increase in up to its maximum off 36.
Let's just test the other one up to its maximum.
So I've obviously made an error on this 2nd 1 because it's going up in increments of one,
so it must have left the small change value at its default of one.
So if you spotted that well done,
if you spot it that in the last straight here,
well done,
I'll just catch up with you.
So we want this spin button to have a small train set in off five that will kill that
problem.
We also had a problem with truncate in on the text field,
so just control.
Click on this to select them both.
We just need to know to them across slightly.
And a nice way of doing this is just to increase this measurement.
So if I increase it by,
let's say it's 216 Now let's make it 219 and then click control Click on both of these.
And of course now we want the width,
and let's increase that by approximately three as well.
So that becomes 27 and hopefully that will stop the truncation.
Let's just check.
So now we can see the 0.5 in both of these boxes on by changing the small change to five
that's cured that problem as well.
So next we have the farmed old and I talic for war,
both the title and the author text boxes.
Let's do the forms first so I'll just double click on my combo box.
And again,
the default event of change is exactly the one we want.
Obviously,
Click wouldn't be a good idea,
because when you click,
you haven't yet chosen anything on the combo box.
So the change event is the one that happens when you make a choice.
And again,
this is a one liner,
so the target control is me dot txt title.
On the property with changing will be the front property and inside the front property.
We're after the name.
We want that to match me.
Don't CBO title font don't value.
And again we could just copy the event handler for author.
So let's test save test.
Let's put a title in,
Um,
let's change and then it goes.
It's still the same here,
so they're working fine.
Let's close,
and we then go to do the same with the font size as well as Thea Bold metallic.
So I'll just double click on the font size again changes a default event,
so that's fine.
So again,
we're looking inside the phone property,
so meat odds txt title not formed on this time.
Don't size equals may dot Txt title size overvalued and we do the same for the author.
So we've got some text in both increase the font size earned up it goes You can keep your
finger on it.
Teoh,
make it go quickly.
Uh,
down So they're working and then we're going to do the same with these.
So this time the default event is click,
which is obviously too early We really want the change event.
So from the procedure dropped down,
which is change and then we can get rid of the unwanted click.
So again,
we're working with the font object made up txt title not formed This time it's not bold
equals And although it's prompted us for true or false,
what we can do is to read the value off the track box because if you remember,
the value of check boxes and option buttons can only be true or false.
So we simply read whichever value is currently in place.
So made out chk title be don't value.
We can copy this to get my italics so that will be titled I don't change and of course
stopped fund Got my Talic and Chk title I don't value.
Then we can call p these two and change all the titles to order.
When you've got a few to do,
you can highlight all the relevant text control H for fine change or at it lying change.
So I edit replace from then fine change and we find title,
replace with author within selected text and then replace all.
So let's test those two as well.
Se and run get a text here.
Bit of text there.
Hold on.
Impact is such a bold front that it's bold already.
So let's just go to Ariel.
Bold on bold off.
That's how I go on.
I started golf on the same here.
Hold on,
bold off like on my tonic off.
So that completes the interaction between the various controls themselves.
Eso Now we really want to focus on the buttons when the user has made their choices